Yeah, I'm just going to talk a really quick presentation about Everest.
First a few words about myself.
My name is Kai.
I have a background in computer science and robotics and I've been working at Pyonix on
this Everest project since early 2021.
So what's Everest?
It's a complete software stack for electric vehicle chargers which is running on embedded
Linux.
It's released under the Apache 2.0 license.
And the aim is to support many different hardware platforms and you can also build your own.
Yeah, it comes with a lot of different modules already.
So, you know, board support drivers for AC chargers, for DC chargers.
It's already prepared for or comes with high level communication support.
So we have Slack implemented, the Deanspec 7121 and ISO 508-2 and dash 20.
There's OCBP 201 and 1.6 support with drivers for power meters for DC power supplies and
so on.
Yeah, the project is primarily written in C++17.
There's also language support for JavaScript and Python and relatively recently we also
introduced support for writing your own modules in Rust.
Yeah, this is a, hopefully you can read the slide but it doesn't really matter that much.
I'm just going to talk about it a little bit like the timeline, how this project came to
be.
So the first ideas on, you know, how to improve the EV charging ecosystem began in like the
end of 2020.
The company Pyonix, which started this project, was then founded in early 2021.
And about a year later, Everest was announced as the latest Linux Foundation energy project
with the source code being published in January 2022.
And we had ChargeBite joined the technical steering committee and they also started integrating
it into their charge controllers.
In the beginning of 2023, we had different manufacturers of charging controllers and suppliers
of chips and stuff like that launched several dev kits that are Everest enabled.
And in October, we held our first little conference with like 100 people, the aptly named Everest
Summit.
It's always a bit of a mountaineering pun going on with some of the names.
Yeah, and pretty much the same time we had the US Joint Office of Energy and Transportation
as well as Charger Manufacturer Quello join our technical steering committee.
And yeah, that leaves us pretty much here at FOSDEM 2024 and lots of exciting things
basically planned in 2024 as well.
And yeah, this is a slide basically showing a lot of the like ecosystem around it already.
Like we have involvement from like academia from like enthusiasts just wanting to work
on this, but also like charging station manufacturers, component suppliers and like standardization
bodies as well.
Yeah, then looking at 2023, that was basically the year where the project kind of like took
off I would say.
I held a short talk at FOSDEM last year in February and you can see like the stream of
contributions basically increasing over the whole year, which was pretty cool.
Lots of like pull requests to review lots of things to merge and a lot of like community
engagement, which brings its own challenges with it.
So it was a bit of a fast growing community.
Like yeah, in 2023, we basically only had like a mailing list and at some point it was
basically unmanageable because of all the traffic.
So we kind of thought about how we want to like tackle this, how to make this, you know,
sustainable for the future.
So we thought about like moving to like a more like chat based solution to the Sulep
chat and you can kind of see like the amount of messages kind of going down on the mailing
list at the same time as you know, our active users on the chat system got up.
So I think this is on a good track and we'll just have to see how this works out over the
next couple of months.
And yeah, with this introduction of the chat system, we kind of also created a new organizational
structure to basically better engage with the community and manage this, you know, growth.
So we introduced different working groups.
One of them is, you know, focus on car communication.
So I think ISO 1511A, Tadeimo and things like that.
Another working group that I'm very active in is the cloud communication, which is mainly
focusing on OCPP at the moment.
Then there's one kind of talking about everything that's related to like the core of the Everest
project itself, like builds tools and like the foundation of it, which has a bit of overlap
with the CI and testing working group as well.
And for everything there is not really a place for this general and Q&A working group.
And yeah, what I find really interesting is that it's kind of like a multimodal approach.
So we try to have like chat streams where people can ask questions and engage in like
a text-based way, but also have like regular meetings, like video calls where people can
also ask questions.
And this seems to work pretty well.
Yeah, let's talk quickly about some milestones in 2023.
We had like set out a goal for monthly source code releases.
And I think we more or less hit that goal.
We had like 10 monthly source code releases in a year.
We also just released the January 2024 release.
Based on those source code releases, we also provide a Yachto layer for Kirkstone.
And we're also kind of thinking about maybe a new release strategy going forward.
So maybe doing releases every two or three months and focusing more on like stability
of these releases.
But this is still a bit up for debate at the moment.
Some of the technical milestones of 2023, we worked pretty hard on OCPP 201.
So the core and advanced security profiles of that, they are pretty much almost done.
And some parties are already going into certification based on that code.
And in general, there was very active development on OCPP in the last year, as well as OCPP
1.6, we also continuously improved that.
And yeah, on the car side things, car communication side, we now have a pretty well-tested Dean's
back as well as ISO 1511.8-2 implementation, including plug and charge.
And we had the first successful charging sessions with ISO 1511.8-20DC.
And yeah, to make all of this work pretty well, we tried to attend lots of different
testing events.
So we intended to OCA OCPP plug fists in Arnhem, as well as three different like Charin test
intervals, which are focused on testing interoperability with ISO 1511.8.
Some of you might remember this, like last year I talked about the open hardware that
we also launched, like the end of 2022, early 2023, this year, Jaggen-Yeti board released
under the CERN Open Hardware License Version 2.
But I'm not going to go into any detail here.
So if you're interested in that, there's like two talks I gave last year about this
hardware and you can basically find everything that you need on the GitHub page as well.
Just another cool thing, we built with this hardware, it's like a DIY DC charger.
So we basically plugged this with a wiring diagram, very similar to this one that you
can also find on GitHub together and use basically our AC controller hardware to drive a functioning
DC charger.
Another cool thing that we've been working on last year was, is this what we call the
micro megawatt charger.
This is a handheld DC charger powered by Everest.
And what's pretty cool about this is it's a functioning handheld DC charger.
So it started out with just an early prototype in early 2023, still in a box with cables
and everything and basically ended up in something that fits inside of the box just for delivery.
And what's cool about this is given that it's a functioning DC charger that is battery powered,
you actually have voltage on the DC pins so you can plug it into a car and you go basically
through the whole charging sequence with the car.
Not just protocol testing but you can actually go to the power delivery and then most cars
basically say, okay, I can't do much with one watt, I just stop.
So why do we do this?
It's pretty cool to just walk around on like these testables but also like on a normal parking
lot, you know, with consent of the owners to just plug this into the car and generate
log files and packet dumps and things like that.
And we also try to publish these on GitHub after we recreated them.
Then we worked a little bit on EV simulations so we got a small children's electric quad
outfitted it with a CCS port, runs a hacked up Everest simulation on it, EV simulation
on it.
And I think it's one of the only children's electric quads that can charge on a commercial
DC fast charger.
And we have some more plans with that in 2024 so we want to have this EV simulation like
natively in C++, include like an EV manager in there and basically extend it with ISO
15118-20 support.
And there's a little bit of work going on on Tademo as well in the moment.
And yeah, this brings me to the roadmap for 2024 and like no particular order.
Like I just mentioned, the native EV simulation, we want to complete our OCBP201 implementation
and start integrating OCBP 2.1 once the spec has been released.
And there's going to be a lot of work going on on ISO 15118-20 so we have a C++ based
XC parser and a parser generator in the works.
We want to also include plug and charge there work on the AC unidirectional as well as bidirectional
power transfer.
And there's also a first lecture demo prototype for the charger side in the works.
And yeah, if this sounded interesting for you, yeah, here so you can get involved.
Basically you can find documentation and how to get engaged with the project, you know,
like the mailing list, the group chats and things like that on everest.github.io.
If you just want to look at the code, it's on github.github.com.
And you can also find the open hardware under those two links.
And yeah, I'm looking forward to your engagement, maybe contributions and thank you very much.
We have about three minutes if anyone has any questions.
Yes, I have information about to see the first is recuperation of energy when you are going
down and the street is going down is the first question also the deceleration motor
deceleration with trucks also in the system.
And the other question is about this hardware or software for bicycle with electric assistance.
Okay, I think the first two is mostly like on the EV side of things like proper EV side
of things.
And I mean, we are mostly focused on EV charges.
But for bicycles, like, I think there's some work going on in some standardization bodies
at the moment to basically specify like charging for small bikes for small like electric assisted
bikes as well as, yeah, how do you call these things like the little motorcycles that are
electric for the scooters and stuff like that.
Doesn't look like it.
So how much has the open hardware helped with the project in terms of contributions or say
vendor adoption?
I think it's really hard to quantify because people can just look at the designs and basically
build stuff with it.
Like our company, we had some orders for like finished kits of these things and I think
we sold quite a few of those.
But yeah, I think it helped.
But it's more like, you know, we see it as like a dev kit that people can just play around
with.
And it's really not that complicated.
I mean, especially like it's an AC charger.
So you need some relays, you need a way to drive these relays.
It's like a power meter on there, but usually if you want to build something for yourself,
you don't need that.
And then the high level communication board, this needs like a modem, like a power line
communication modem to talk with the car.
But only if you want to do Ice with an 11-8.
If you don't want to do this, you can just leave this out as well and build something
really, really simple.
But for starting to hack around with Everest and all of these more advanced things, I think
it helped.
And there's definitely some interest there.
Thank you very much.